---
:title: Squeemote 1.1 now available in the iTunes store
:format: :textile
---
Squeemote 1.1 was finally approved by Apple this morning and is now <a href="http://itunes.apple.com/WebObjects/MZStore.woa/wa/viewSoftware?id=298005260&mt=8">available in the iTunes store</a>. This is quite a hefty update with a number of new features, improvements to existing ones and numerous bug and performance fixes. Here's the run down of changes:

* Added support for browsing Music Services and Internet Radio stations.
* Improved handling of music service and internet radio streams on the now playing screen, including displaying the correct artist/album/title/artwork for music service tracks.
* Squeemote will now automatically discover your server.
* Added support for server authentication and improved the layout of the initial setup screen.
* Reduced initial startup time.
* Improved display of album tracks when browsing music library.
* Artists list now respects "ignored articles" server setting when sorting.
* Added "clear playlist" button to current playlist screen.
* Improved responsiveness of volume slider control.
* Added "disable auto-lock" setting to prevent device from going into standby.
* Numerous bug-fixes and performance/reliability improvements.

There are a few outstanding known issues mainly relating to Squeemote no longer picking up changes from the server after coming out of sleep. These will be resolved in 1.2 which is progressing nicely and will hopefully be submitted to Apple in the next week or so.

I'm also pleased to announce that Squeemote now has "it's own website":http://lukeredpath.co.uk/squeemote. It's not entirely finished so a few things may be broken but it will be finished off over the weekend. I'll also be adding a Help/FAQ page to the site over the weekend.

On a technical note, I did a fairly significant piece of refactoring to the underlying code that retrieves the remote data and displays a "Loading..." view whilst this is happening. I hope to write a blog post about the methods I used to accomplish this and will be releasing the generic code behind this under the MIT license.